title: ReaperStory
tags:
position: 169,38
---
Reaper Ghost: Hello again, Cafe Ghost! It's lovely to see you again. Your cafe has certainly come a long way since the day you first arrived. But we aren't here to discuss that, are we? Do tell, how have you been in the time since my last visit? 
Reaper Ghost: 
Reaper Ghost: {I've talked to a lot of ghosts who had regrets about their impact on Earth, and I can't help but empathize. I just feel like nothing I did on Earth changed anything, like it didn't matter that I lived. Whatever the purpose of life is, I'm sure that I failed to fulfill it.}
Reaper Ghost: 
Reaper Ghost: ...Well, I don't want to invalidate what you are feeling, but I cannot help but disagree fundamentally with the idea that your life was wasted. For one, the idea that life has a purpose, some concrete destination, is simply ludicrous to me. That there could be a meaning assigned to something as open and diverse as life is simply impossible. The meaning of life is whatever you make of it, and might I say, you made an incredible life. 
Reaper Ghost: Look at how many people you've reached, how many lives were changed by your presence! You helped a friend understand their science homework, long ago, and even now they mourn your absence. You planted a tree, as a child - that's a large oak now, home to a family of little squirrels. And, in the end, little impact or large, the only person your life should matter to is yourself. 
Reaper Ghost: 
Reaper Ghost: So, are you really unhappy with the life you led?
Reaper Ghost: {...If the purpose of life is whatever I want it to be, then I wanted more than I was.}
Reaper Ghost: And that's a heartbreaking way to live. Or, die, I suppose. I know you wanted more from yourself, that you expected more from yourself. 
Reaper Ghost: {It just doesn't feel like enough, you know? Planting one dumb tree doesn't magically make my life worthwhile.}
Reaper Ghost: I assure you, it is only yourself who does not see your life as worthwhile. And there's no need to dismiss your actions so quickly, a tree is still a precious life like any other, no?
Reaper Ghost: {Yeah, I guess so...}
Reaper Ghost:  Your life had an impact, and furthermore, it shouldn't matter whether or not it had an impact.
Reaper Ghost: {Nah, not really.}
Reaper Ghost: ...Well, it is not the time or place for that philosophical debate. But the point stands that your life had an impact, and furthermore, it shouldn't matter whether or not it had an impact.
Reaper Ghost: Your expectations, your judgement, they are all self-imposed. Societally influenced, of course, but self-imposed nevertheless. It never mattered at all whether you had an “impact” or not, except to yourself. 
Reaper Ghost: But I want you to know that your life was enough. Let's try and look back at your life, okay? If you can't accept that your life was fulfilling from your perspective, then we'll look at your life from the view of the people around you. Let's see how you have changed others' lives. And, you don't need to believe me about this, but changing people is the same as changing the world.
Reaper Ghost: Now, in your eyes, who do you think you've impacted the most by your presence?
Reaper Ghost: {My family.}
Reaper Ghost: Your family, hm? Then, do you think that impact was minimal? Do you not believe that you influenced them at all?
Reaper Ghost: {I think I did. I'm not sure if it's for the better.}
Reaper Ghost: You're family, you're not always going to be better for each other. The important thing is to try for the better. Did you?
Reaper Ghost: {Yes.}
Reaper Ghost: {Well, most of the time.}
Reaper Ghost: Then there you go. Is that not enough for you, to have been there for your family? In my eyes, to have been what someone else considers family is a great honor. And, you can see for yourself how they grieve your absence. Being so important to another person - is that not reason enough to say you've had an impact?
Reaper Ghost: {Sure, they care about me, but that doesn't mean I changed their lives.}
Reaper Ghost: Could you imagine life without your family? How different of a person you would be, how much lonelier you would be. Do you not think that they would feel the same without you?
Reaper Ghost: {But...just because they feel that way doesn't mean I was actually changing their lives.}
Reaper Ghost: I must disagree. You were a part of their lives, whether you “changed” something or not. Just being there, to come home to or see occasionally or remember to call, made you a part of their lives that they now must live without. Your death is proof that your life had meaning, because just look at how different it is when you are gone. It is not that grief magically appears from thin air. That is how much you meant to them. Being so important to another person - is that not reason enough to say you've had an impact?
Reaper Ghost: {My friends.}
Reaper Ghost: Ahh, your friends. This one, I have proof for sure that you have impacted them! You've helped so many souls in purgatory find peace, I can only imagine how many more you've helped in life. 
Reaper Ghost: {I didn't do much, I just listened...}
Reaper Ghost: And that's more than many people bother to do. Don't downplay your own kindness - you have helped these people. 
Reaper Ghost: 	{That's just in purgatory though...}
Reaper Ghost: Just because purgatory comes after life does not make it any less real. These ghosts, their distress is not invalid simply because they are dead; and therefore, your kindness is not invalid simply because you are too. 
Reaper Ghost: But tell me about your friends. How have you impacted them?
Reaper Ghost: {I don't think I did, though?}
Reaper Ghost: I believe you did. See, friends can be a bond stronger than any, but they are also not bound by anything other than each other. Not like family, or yourself, friends come and go much more often. If you had friends, then that was for a reason. You brought them joy, and they wanted to be around you. If that isn't impactful, I don't know what is.
Reaper Ghost: {Is that really an impact...?}
Reaper Ghost: Of course it is! It's as I've said: changing people is the same as changing the world. If your presence brought your friends happiness, then you were bringing happiness into the world! Creating it out of thin air! That's no small thing, is it? Now, let me ask you this. Is happiness enough for you? If your friends did nothing on Earth except bring you happiness, was their presence worthwhile?
Reaper Ghost: {We were happy together, but...is that really an impact?}
Reaper Ghost: Of course it is! It's as I've said: changing people is the same as changing the world. If your presence brought your friends happiness, then you were bringing happiness into the world! Creating it out of thin air! That's no small thing, is it? Now, let me ask you this. Is happiness enough for you? If your friends did nothing on Earth except bring you happiness, was their presence worthwhile?
Reaper Ghost: {Myself.}
Reaper Ghost: And there's nothing wrong with living for yourself, in that case. It's probably objectively true that you have impacted yourself the most, no? But there's no one who lives completely isolated. Who knows how many countless small acts of kindness that you've done have made other people's days, or gave them hope, or granted them that courage they needed. You've heard of the Butterfly Effect, I presume? I could wax poetic for days about what you may or may not have caused in the world. 
Reaper Ghost: {But is that...enough?}
Reaper Ghost: I can't tell you that. That's a question for yourself. But I certainly think so, dear. To me, no one has ever not been enough. 
Reaper Ghost: {No one.}
Reaper Ghost: Then that's simply untrue. Who knows how many countless small acts of kindness that you've done have made other people's days, or gave them hope, or granted them that courage they needed. You've heard of the Butterfly Effect, I presume? I could wax poetic for days about what you may or may not have caused in the world. 
Reaper Ghost: {But is that...enough?}
Reaper Ghost: I can't tell you that. That's a question for yourself. But I certainly think so, dear. To me, no one has ever not been enough.
Reaper Ghost: Cafe Ghost: I think...I'm starting to understand what you mean, when you say that I've done is enough. I did do a lot of things, you know? And met a lot of people, and had a lot of wishes, and maybe even changed a tiny bit of the world. Not a lot. Not much at all. But, well. I've always dreamed small. Maybe changing just my little part of the world can be enough for me.
<<setCam "Main Camera">>
===
